ESP32README.md, before:

![Tasmota logo](/tools/logo/TASMOTA_FullLogo_Vector.svg)

## esp32 port with minimal changes
This is my esp32 port, i try to make only minimal changes to the original
source code from Theo Arends.
Here are the main things i have done 

- in platformio.ini [common] and [env] i 
  need "lib_extra_dirs" and "lib_ignore" options
- in "lib_extra_dirs" i have libesp32 directory for things missing in ESP32 framework
- my "ESP32-to-ESP8266-compat" has all files that are not available in ESP32
  so you dont have to change the source code and i write code to get the informations from ESP32
- all librarys that are not compatibel i add to lib_ignore
- all code that is not for ESP32 i put in "#ifdef ESP8266" the define is from expessiv platform
- all code for ESP32 is in "#ifdef ESP32"
- changed SerialConfig variable  from uint8_t to SerialConfig
- changed "HTTP_HEADER" to "HTTP_HEADER1", in ESP32 its an enum
- for ip adress 0 i used IPAddress(0,0,0,0)
- Special ESP.xxx call i change to ESP_xxx (ESP_rtcUserMemoryWrite, ...) and write macros for ESP8266
- because ESP32 has only WEMOS 32 modul, i exclude all code like this:
  "if (SONOFF_xxx == Settings.module)" in "#ifdef ESP8266"
- variable "sleep" i changed to "ssleep" because of standard library sleep(..) function
- all esp32 stuff is in support_esp32.ino
- in tasmota.ino i include "tasmota_compat.h"
- in tasmota_template.h i use ifdef and tasmota_templESP32.h
- defines for sensors that currently don't work, i undef in tasmota_templESP32.h

## build info 
copy platformio_override_esp32.ini to platformio_override.ini an select your imagetype

have fun

Jörg

Commit message:

fix build, mode sensors make time working, fix hue ExecuteCommandPower() warning Fix Packed stuff, don't modify platformio.ini

ESP32README.md, after:

![Tasmota logo](/tools/logo/TASMOTA_FullLogo_Vector.svg)

## esp32 port with minimal changes
This is my esp32 port, i try to make only minimal changes to the original
source code from Theo Arends.
Here are the main things i have done 

- in platformio.ini [common] and [env] i 
  need "lib_extra_dirs" and "lib_ignore" options
- in "lib_extra_dirs" i have libesp32 directory for things missing in ESP32 framework
- my "ESP32-to-ESP8266-compat" has all files that are not available in ESP32
  so you dont have to change the source code and i write code to get the informations from ESP32
- all librarys that are not compatibel i add to lib_ignore
- all code that is not for ESP32 i put in "#ifdef ESP8266" the define is from espessif platform
- all code for ESP32 is in "#ifdef ESP32"
- changed SerialConfig variable  from uint8_t to SerialConfig
- changed "HTTP_HEADER" to "HTTP_HEADER1", in ESP32 its an enum
- for ip adress 0 i used IPAddress(0,0,0,0)
- Special ESP.xxx call i change to ESP_xxx (ESP_rtcUserMemoryWrite, ...) and write macros for ESP8266
- because ESP32 has only WEMOS 32 modul, i exclude all code like this:
  "if (SONOFF_xxx == Settings.module)" in "#ifdef ESP8266"
- variable "sleep" i changed to "ssleep" because of standard library sleep(..) function
- all esp32 stuff is in support_esp32.ino
- in tasmota.ino i include "tasmota_compat.h"
- in tasmota_template.h i use ifdef and tasmota_templESP32.h
- defines for sensors that currently don't work, i undef in tasmota_templESP32.h
- no warnig in "xdrv_20_hue.ino" thats th only warning had


## build info 
copy platformio_override_esp32.ini to platformio_override.ini an select your imagetype

have fun

Jörg
