README.md, before:

<img src="/tools/logo/TASMOTA_FullLogo_Vector.svg" alt="Logo" align="right" height="76"/>
## Stefan Bode fork of Tasmota-Master
I keep this version in sync with the current development of the master. Anyhow my use case is a little bit different. Even, if I have some SONOFF devices, I like to build(solder) my own based on different versions of the ESP8266, depending on my different requirements (batterie, external Antenna, add on I2C devices and others). Additionally I try to improve the overall project.

Additional features:
- DeepSleep support up to 136 Years (deepsleep=xxx [sec]). Support also 1day or more deepsleep. Just define deepsleep e.g. 1 day = 86400. (wakes up every hour for <0.3 seconds until time reached. just set deepsleep through serial or MQTT to a value in sec from 10 - 4.294.967.295 (136 Years :-))
- Improved Startuptime incl TLS MQTT and measurement in <9 sek
- Support for I2C 8-channel DIO extension board PCF-8574 (large extension to support 32 relays and pulsetimers on 8 relays (can be changed by changing constant MAX_PULSETIMER).
- Report total UPTIME (seconds) between two deepsleep cycle. This allows to see uptime, even if connect was not successfull or there was a reboot. Using RTC memory to ensure correct uptime
- Added support of "counterdevider[1..MAX_COUNTERS]" (serial and MQTT command), to count only the 1 count every counterdeviderX impulses (max 65.000 impulses = 1 count, default 1s).
- Added Support for Shutter use-Case. In this case two relays are paired into one switch. Based on the value on the first relay the second relay will set automatically. Use Setoption81 to set it. See Wiki.
- Added more support for the shutter Use-Case. The Setoption80 is required, if someone changes the target position if the shutter is still operating. Please see Shutter wiki for more details.
- Added full support on RULES with shutter. Full control and new events Shutter#MOVING and Shutter#MOVED
- Added Alexa support for shutters through HUE Dimmer functionality. Not perfect but ok.

Changelog:
1.10 2019-09-04
- Fixed issue with wakeup not working. Calculate clock correction factor to meet deepsleep time. Real deepsleep is up to 10% related on chip temperature. Correction factor will continuously improved at every wakeup. NTP Timeserver is required.
1.09 2019-09-02
- Fixed shutter: Relay executed by MQTT or serial did not get recognized by shutter driver.
1.08 2019-09-01
- Added two new triggers to rules (System#PreTele and System#PostTele). Mainly to switch on/off devices before and after TelePeriod
- changed deepsleep time calculation. Wakeup will now 100% in sync with time. E.g. you startet at 8:00am and define 3600 seconds, the device will always wakeup near the full hour. A slightly shift will not happen anymore
1.07 2019-08-30
- Added two new triggers to rules to better control the shutters (SHUTTER#MOVING and SHUTTER#MOVED). Last one reports actual position of the shutter.

**Note that deep sleep on ESP-01 is not possible without hardware modifications because it's required to connect GPIO16 to RST, see https://github.com/stefanbode/Sonoff-Tasmota/issues/40. The same applies most likely to other modules like ESP-02, ESP-04 etc**

# Sonoff-Tasmota
Alternative firmware for _ESP8266 based devices_ like [iTead](https://www.itead.cc/) _**Sonoff**_ with **web UI, rules and timers, OTA updates, custom device templates and sensor support**. Allows control over **MQTT**, **HTTP**, **Serial** and **KNX** for integrations with smart home systems. Written for Arduino IDE and PlatformIO.

[![GitHub version](https://img.shields.io/github/release/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota.svg)](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/releases/latest)
[![GitHub download](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/total.svg)](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/releases/latest)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota.svg)](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/blob/development/LICENSE.txt)
[![Chat](https://img.shields.io/discord/479389167382691863.svg)](https://discord.gg/Ks2Kzd4)

If you like **Sonoff-Tasmota**, give it a star, or fork it and contribute!

[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota.svg?style=social&label=Star)](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/stargazers)
[![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota.svg?style=social&label=Fork)](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/network)
[![donate](https://img.shields.io/badge/donate-PayPal-blue.svg)](https://paypal.me/tasmota)

See [RELEASENOTES.md](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/blob/development/RELEASENOTES.md) for release information.

In addition to the [release webpage](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/releases/latest) the binaries can also be downloaded from http://thehackbox.org/tasmota/release/

## Development
[![Dev Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/development%20version-v6.6.0.x-blue.svg)](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota)
[![Download Dev](https://img.shields.io/badge/download-development-yellow.svg)](http://thehackbox.org/tasmota/)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota)

See [sonoff/_changelog.ino](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/blob/development/sonoff/_changelog.ino) for detailed change information.

The development codebase is checked hourly for changes and if new commits have been merged and compile successfuly they will be posted at http://thehackbox.org/tasmota/ (this web address can be used for OTA too). It is important to note that these are based on the current development codebase and it is not recommended to flash it to devices used in production or which are hard to reach in the event that you need to manually flash the device if OTA failed. The last compiled commit number is also posted on the same page along with the current build status (if a firmware rebuild is in progress).

## Disclaimer
:warning: **DANGER OF ELECTROCUTION** :warning:

A Sonoff device is not a toy. It uses Mains AC so there is a danger of electrocution if not installed properly. If you don't know how to install it, please call an electrician. Remember: _**SAFETY FIRST**_. It is not worth risk to yourself, your family, and your home if you don't know exactly what you are doing. Never try to flash a Sonoff device while it is connected to MAINS AC.

We don't take any responsibility nor liability for using this software nor for the installation or any tips, advice, videos, etc. given by any member of this site or any related site.

## Note
Please do not ask to add new devices unless it requires additional code for new features. If the device is not listed as a module, try using [Templates](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Templates) first. If it is not listed in the [Tasmota Device Templates Repository](http://blakadder.github.io/templates) create your own [Template](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Templates#creating-your-template-).

## Quick Install
Download one of the released binaries from https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/releases and flash it to your hardware as [documented in the wiki](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Flashing).

## Important User Compilation Information
If you want to compile Sonoff-Tasmota yourself keep in mind the following:

- Only Flash Mode **DOUT** is supported. Do not use Flash Mode DIO / QIO / QOUT as it might seem to brick your device. See [Wiki](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Theo's-Tasmota-Tips) for background information.
- Sonoff-Tasmota uses a 1M linker script WITHOUT spiffs **1M (no SPIFFS)** for optimal code space. If you compile using ESP/Arduino library 2.3.0 then download the provided new linker script to your Arduino IDE or Platformio base folder. Later version of ESP/Arduino library already contain the correct linker script. See [Wiki > Prerequisites](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Prerequisites).
- To make compile time changes to Sonoff-Tasmota it can use the ``user_config_override.h`` file. It assures keeping your settings when you download and compile a new version. To use ``user_config.override.h`` you will have to make a copy of the provided ``user_config_override_sample.h`` file and add your setting overrides. To enable the override file you will need to use a compile define as documented in the ``user_config_override_sample.h`` file.

## Version Information
- Sonoff-Tasmota provides all (Sonoff) modules in one file and starts with module Sonoff Basic.
- Once uploaded, select [Module](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Modules) using the configuration webpage, the commands ```Modules``` and ```Module``` or configure the [Template](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Templates) for your device
- After reboot select config menu again or use commands ```GPIOs``` and ```GPIO``` to change GPIO with desired sensor.

## Migration Information
See [wiki migration path](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Upgrade#migration-path) for instructions how to migrate to a major version. Pay attention to the following version breaks due to dynamic settings updates:

1. Migrate to **Sonoff-Tasmota 3.9.x**
2. Migrate to **Sonoff-Tasmota 4.x**
3. Migrate to **Sonoff-Tasmota 5.14**
4. Migrate to **Sonoff-Tasmota 6.x**

## Support Information
<img src="https://github.com/arendst/arendst.github.io/blob/master/media/sonoffbasic.jpg" width="250" align="right" />

For a database of supported devices see [Tasmota Device Templates Repository](https://blakadder.github.io/templates)

See [Wiki](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki) for use instructions and how-to's.<br />
See [Community](https://groups.google.com/d/forum/sonoffusers) for forum.<br />
Visit [Discord Chat](https://discord.gg/Ks2Kzd4) for discussions and troubleshooting.

## Contribute
You can contribute to Sonoff-Tasmota by
- providing Pull Requests (Features, Proof of Concepts, Language files or Fixes)
- testing new released features and report issues
- donating to acquire hardware for testing and implementing or out of gratitude
- contributing missing documentation for features and devices on our [Wiki](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki)

[![donate](https://img.shields.io/badge/donate-PayPal-blue.svg)](https://paypal.me/tasmota)

## Credits

### Libraries Used
Libraries used with Sonoff-Tasmota are:
- [ESP8266 core for Arduino](https://github.com/esp8266/Arduino)
- [Adafruit CCS811](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CCS811)
- [Adafruit ILI9341](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_ILI9341)
- [Adafruit LED Backpack](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit-LED-Backpack-Library)
- [Adafruit SGP30](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_SGP30)
- [Adafruit SSD1306](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_SSD1306)
- [Adafruit GFX](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit-GFX-Library)
- [ArduinoJson](https://arduinojson.org/)
- [Bosch BME680](https://github.com/BoschSensortec/BME680_driver)
- [C2 Programmer](http://app.cear.ufpb.br/~lucas.hartmann/tag/efm8bb1/)
- [esp-epaper-29-ws-20171230-gemu](https://github.com/gemu2015/Sonoff-Tasmota/tree/displays/lib)
- [esp-knx-ip](https://github.com/envy/esp-knx-ip)
- FrogmoreScd30
- [I2Cdevlib](https://github.com/jrowberg/i2cdevlib)
- [IRremoteEsp8266](https://github.com/markszabo/IRremoteESP8266)
- [JobaTsl2561](https://github.com/joba-1/Joba_Tsl2561)
- [LinkedList](https://github.com/ivanseidel/LinkedList)
- [Liquid Cristal](https://github.com/marcoschwartz/LiquidCrystal_I2C)
- [MultiChannelGasSensor](http://wiki.seeedstudio.com/Grove-Multichannel_Gas_Sensor/)
- [NeoPixelBus](https://github.com/Makuna/NeoPixelBus)
- [NewPing](https://bitbucket.org/teckel12/arduino-new-ping/wiki/Home)
- [OneWire](https://github.com/PaulStoffregen/OneWire)
- [PubSubClient](https://github.com/knolleary/pubsubclient)
- [rc-switch](https://github.com/sui77/rc-switch)

### People inspiring me
People helping to keep the show on the road:
- David Lang providing initial issue resolution and code optimizations
- Heiko Krupp for his IRSend, HTU21, SI70xx and Wemo/Hue emulation drivers
- Wiktor Schmidt for Travis CI implementation
- Thom Dietrich for PlatformIO optimizations
- Marinus van den Broek for his EspEasy groundwork
- Pete Ba for more user friendly energy monitor calibration
- Lobradov providing compile optimization tips
- Flexiti for his initial timer implementation
- reloxx13 for his [TasmoAdmin](https://github.com/reloxx13/TasmoAdmin) management tool
- Joachim Banzhaf for his TSL2561 library and driver
- Gijs Noorlander for his MHZ19, SenseAir and updated PubSubClient drivers
- Emontnemery for his HomeAssistant Discovery concept and many code tuning tips
- Aidan Mountford for his HSB support
- Daniel Ztolnai for his Serial Bridge implementation
- Gerhard Mutz for multiple sensor & display drivers, Sunrise/Sunset, and scripting
- Nuno Ferreira for his HC-SR04 driver
- Adrian Scillato for his (security)fixes and implementing and maintaining KNX
- Gennaro Tortone for implementing and maintaining Eastron drivers
- Raymond Mouthaan for managing Wemos Wiki information
- Norbert Richter for his decode-config.py tool
- Andre Thomas for providing [thehackbox](http://thehackbox.org/tasmota/) OTA support and daily development builds
- Joel Stein and digiblur for their Tuya research and driver
- Frogmore42 and Jason2866 for providing many issue answers
- Blakadder for editing the wiki and providing template management
- Stephan Hadinger for refactoring light driver and enhancing HueEmulation
- tmo for designing the official logo
- Many more providing Tips, Wips, Pocs or PRs

## License

This program is licensed under GPL-3.0

Commit message:

added script support
experimental sht[ to get shutter position
#173

README.md, after:

<img src="/tools/logo/TASMOTA_FullLogo_Vector.svg" alt="Logo" align="right" height="76"/>
## Stefan Bode fork of Tasmota-Master
I keep this version in sync with the current development of the master. Anyhow my use case is a little bit different. Even, if I have some SONOFF devices, I like to build(solder) my own based on different versions of the ESP8266, depending on my different requirements (batterie, external Antenna, add on I2C devices and others). Additionally I try to improve the overall project.

Additional features:
- DeepSleep support up to 136 Years (deepsleep=xxx [sec]). Support also 1day or more deepsleep. Just define deepsleep e.g. 1 day = 86400. (wakes up every hour for <0.3 seconds until time reached. just set deepsleep through serial or MQTT to a value in sec from 10 - 4.294.967.295 (136 Years :-))
- Improved Startuptime incl TLS MQTT and measurement in <9 sek
- Support for I2C 8-channel DIO extension board PCF-8574 (large extension to support 32 relays and pulsetimers on 8 relays (can be changed by changing constant MAX_PULSETIMER).
- Report total UPTIME (seconds) between two deepsleep cycle. This allows to see uptime, even if connect was not successfull or there was a reboot. Using RTC memory to ensure correct uptime
- Added support of "counterdevider[1..MAX_COUNTERS]" (serial and MQTT command), to count only the 1 count every counterdeviderX impulses (max 65.000 impulses = 1 count, default 1s).
- Added Support for Shutter use-Case. In this case two relays are paired into one switch. Based on the value on the first relay the second relay will set automatically. Use Setoption81 to set it. See Wiki.
- Added more support for the shutter Use-Case. The Setoption80 is required, if someone changes the target position if the shutter is still operating. Please see Shutter wiki for more details.
- Added full support on RULES with shutter. Full control and new events Shutter#MOVING and Shutter#MOVED
- Added Alexa support for shutters through HUE Dimmer functionality. Not perfect but ok.

Changelog:
1.12 2019-09-25
- added sht[ ] for scripts to access the position of a shutter.
1.10 2019-09-04
- Fixed issue with wakeup not working. Calculate clock correction factor to meet deepsleep time. Real deepsleep is up to 10% related on chip temperature. Correction factor will continuously improved at every wakeup. NTP Timeserver is required.
1.09 2019-09-02
- Fixed shutter: Relay executed by MQTT or serial did not get recognized by shutter driver.
1.08 2019-09-01
- Added two new triggers to rules (System#PreTele and System#PostTele). Mainly to switch on/off devices before and after TelePeriod
- changed deepsleep time calculation. Wakeup will now 100% in sync with time. E.g. you startet at 8:00am and define 3600 seconds, the device will always wakeup near the full hour. A slightly shift will not happen anymore
1.07 2019-08-30
- Added two new triggers to rules to better control the shutters (SHUTTER#MOVING and SHUTTER#MOVED). Last one reports actual position of the shutter.

**Note that deep sleep on ESP-01 is not possible without hardware modifications because it's required to connect GPIO16 to RST, see https://github.com/stefanbode/Sonoff-Tasmota/issues/40. The same applies most likely to other modules like ESP-02, ESP-04 etc**

# Sonoff-Tasmota
Alternative firmware for _ESP8266 based devices_ like [iTead](https://www.itead.cc/) _**Sonoff**_ with **web UI, rules and timers, OTA updates, custom device templates and sensor support**. Allows control over **MQTT**, **HTTP**, **Serial** and **KNX** for integrations with smart home systems. Written for Arduino IDE and PlatformIO.

[![GitHub version](https://img.shields.io/github/release/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota.svg)](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/releases/latest)
[![GitHub download](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/total.svg)](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/releases/latest)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota.svg)](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/blob/development/LICENSE.txt)
[![Chat](https://img.shields.io/discord/479389167382691863.svg)](https://discord.gg/Ks2Kzd4)

If you like **Sonoff-Tasmota**, give it a star, or fork it and contribute!

[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota.svg?style=social&label=Star)](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/stargazers)
[![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota.svg?style=social&label=Fork)](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/network)
[![donate](https://img.shields.io/badge/donate-PayPal-blue.svg)](https://paypal.me/tasmota)

See [RELEASENOTES.md](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/blob/development/RELEASENOTES.md) for release information.

In addition to the [release webpage](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/releases/latest) the binaries can also be downloaded from http://thehackbox.org/tasmota/release/

## Development
[![Dev Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/development%20version-v6.6.0.x-blue.svg)](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota)
[![Download Dev](https://img.shields.io/badge/download-development-yellow.svg)](http://thehackbox.org/tasmota/)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota)

See [sonoff/_changelog.ino](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/blob/development/sonoff/_changelog.ino) for detailed change information.

The development codebase is checked hourly for changes and if new commits have been merged and compile successfuly they will be posted at http://thehackbox.org/tasmota/ (this web address can be used for OTA too). It is important to note that these are based on the current development codebase and it is not recommended to flash it to devices used in production or which are hard to reach in the event that you need to manually flash the device if OTA failed. The last compiled commit number is also posted on the same page along with the current build status (if a firmware rebuild is in progress).

## Disclaimer
:warning: **DANGER OF ELECTROCUTION** :warning:

A Sonoff device is not a toy. It uses Mains AC so there is a danger of electrocution if not installed properly. If you don't know how to install it, please call an electrician. Remember: _**SAFETY FIRST**_. It is not worth risk to yourself, your family, and your home if you don't know exactly what you are doing. Never try to flash a Sonoff device while it is connected to MAINS AC.

We don't take any responsibility nor liability for using this software nor for the installation or any tips, advice, videos, etc. given by any member of this site or any related site.

## Note
Please do not ask to add new devices unless it requires additional code for new features. If the device is not listed as a module, try using [Templates](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Templates) first. If it is not listed in the [Tasmota Device Templates Repository](http://blakadder.github.io/templates) create your own [Template](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Templates#creating-your-template-).

## Quick Install
Download one of the released binaries from https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/releases and flash it to your hardware as [documented in the wiki](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Flashing).

## Important User Compilation Information
If you want to compile Sonoff-Tasmota yourself keep in mind the following:

- Only Flash Mode **DOUT** is supported. Do not use Flash Mode DIO / QIO / QOUT as it might seem to brick your device. See [Wiki](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Theo's-Tasmota-Tips) for background information.
- Sonoff-Tasmota uses a 1M linker script WITHOUT spiffs **1M (no SPIFFS)** for optimal code space. If you compile using ESP/Arduino library 2.3.0 then download the provided new linker script to your Arduino IDE or Platformio base folder. Later version of ESP/Arduino library already contain the correct linker script. See [Wiki > Prerequisites](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Prerequisites).
- To make compile time changes to Sonoff-Tasmota it can use the ``user_config_override.h`` file. It assures keeping your settings when you download and compile a new version. To use ``user_config.override.h`` you will have to make a copy of the provided ``user_config_override_sample.h`` file and add your setting overrides. To enable the override file you will need to use a compile define as documented in the ``user_config_override_sample.h`` file.

## Version Information
- Sonoff-Tasmota provides all (Sonoff) modules in one file and starts with module Sonoff Basic.
- Once uploaded, select [Module](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Modules) using the configuration webpage, the commands ```Modules``` and ```Module``` or configure the [Template](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Templates) for your device
- After reboot select config menu again or use commands ```GPIOs``` and ```GPIO``` to change GPIO with desired sensor.

## Migration Information
See [wiki migration path](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Upgrade#migration-path) for instructions how to migrate to a major version. Pay attention to the following version breaks due to dynamic settings updates:

1. Migrate to **Sonoff-Tasmota 3.9.x**
2. Migrate to **Sonoff-Tasmota 4.x**
3. Migrate to **Sonoff-Tasmota 5.14**
4. Migrate to **Sonoff-Tasmota 6.x**

## Support Information
<img src="https://github.com/arendst/arendst.github.io/blob/master/media/sonoffbasic.jpg" width="250" align="right" />

For a database of supported devices see [Tasmota Device Templates Repository](https://blakadder.github.io/templates)

See [Wiki](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki) for use instructions and how-to's.<br />
See [Community](https://groups.google.com/d/forum/sonoffusers) for forum.<br />
Visit [Discord Chat](https://discord.gg/Ks2Kzd4) for discussions and troubleshooting.

## Contribute
You can contribute to Sonoff-Tasmota by
- providing Pull Requests (Features, Proof of Concepts, Language files or Fixes)
- testing new released features and report issues
- donating to acquire hardware for testing and implementing or out of gratitude
- contributing missing documentation for features and devices on our [Wiki](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki)

[![donate](https://img.shields.io/badge/donate-PayPal-blue.svg)](https://paypal.me/tasmota)

## Credits

### Libraries Used
Libraries used with Sonoff-Tasmota are:
- [ESP8266 core for Arduino](https://github.com/esp8266/Arduino)
- [Adafruit CCS811](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CCS811)
- [Adafruit ILI9341](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_ILI9341)
- [Adafruit LED Backpack](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit-LED-Backpack-Library)
- [Adafruit SGP30](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_SGP30)
- [Adafruit SSD1306](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_SSD1306)
- [Adafruit GFX](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit-GFX-Library)
- [ArduinoJson](https://arduinojson.org/)
- [Bosch BME680](https://github.com/BoschSensortec/BME680_driver)
- [C2 Programmer](http://app.cear.ufpb.br/~lucas.hartmann/tag/efm8bb1/)
- [esp-epaper-29-ws-20171230-gemu](https://github.com/gemu2015/Sonoff-Tasmota/tree/displays/lib)
- [esp-knx-ip](https://github.com/envy/esp-knx-ip)
- FrogmoreScd30
- [I2Cdevlib](https://github.com/jrowberg/i2cdevlib)
- [IRremoteEsp8266](https://github.com/markszabo/IRremoteESP8266)
- [JobaTsl2561](https://github.com/joba-1/Joba_Tsl2561)
- [LinkedList](https://github.com/ivanseidel/LinkedList)
- [Liquid Cristal](https://github.com/marcoschwartz/LiquidCrystal_I2C)
- [MultiChannelGasSensor](http://wiki.seeedstudio.com/Grove-Multichannel_Gas_Sensor/)
- [NeoPixelBus](https://github.com/Makuna/NeoPixelBus)
- [NewPing](https://bitbucket.org/teckel12/arduino-new-ping/wiki/Home)
- [OneWire](https://github.com/PaulStoffregen/OneWire)
- [PubSubClient](https://github.com/knolleary/pubsubclient)
- [rc-switch](https://github.com/sui77/rc-switch)

### People inspiring me
People helping to keep the show on the road:
- David Lang providing initial issue resolution and code optimizations
- Heiko Krupp for his IRSend, HTU21, SI70xx and Wemo/Hue emulation drivers
- Wiktor Schmidt for Travis CI implementation
- Thom Dietrich for PlatformIO optimizations
- Marinus van den Broek for his EspEasy groundwork
- Pete Ba for more user friendly energy monitor calibration
- Lobradov providing compile optimization tips
- Flexiti for his initial timer implementation
- reloxx13 for his [TasmoAdmin](https://github.com/reloxx13/TasmoAdmin) management tool
- Joachim Banzhaf for his TSL2561 library and driver
- Gijs Noorlander for his MHZ19, SenseAir and updated PubSubClient drivers
- Emontnemery for his HomeAssistant Discovery concept and many code tuning tips
- Aidan Mountford for his HSB support
- Daniel Ztolnai for his Serial Bridge implementation
- Gerhard Mutz for multiple sensor & display drivers, Sunrise/Sunset, and scripting
- Nuno Ferreira for his HC-SR04 driver
- Adrian Scillato for his (security)fixes and implementing and maintaining KNX
- Gennaro Tortone for implementing and maintaining Eastron drivers
- Raymond Mouthaan for managing Wemos Wiki information
- Norbert Richter for his decode-config.py tool
- Andre Thomas for providing [thehackbox](http://thehackbox.org/tasmota/) OTA support and daily development builds
- Joel Stein and digiblur for their Tuya research and driver
- Frogmore42 and Jason2866 for providing many issue answers
- Blakadder for editing the wiki and providing template management
- Stephan Hadinger for refactoring light driver and enhancing HueEmulation
- tmo for designing the official logo
- Many more providing Tips, Wips, Pocs or PRs

## License

This program is licensed under GPL-3.0
