.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/Bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
---

> **GUIDE**
>
> This BUG issue template is meant to REPORT Tasmota software BUGS ONLY>
>  
> Please DO NOT OPEN AN ISSUE:
>  - If your Tasmota version is not the latest from the development branch, please update your device before submitting your issue. Your problem might already be solved. The latest precompiled binaries of Tasmota can be downloaded from http://thehackbox.org/tasmota/  
>  - If your issue is a flashing issue, please address it to the [Tasmota Support Chat](https://discord.gg/Ks2Kzd4)  
>  - If your issue is compilation problem, please address it to the [Tasmota Support Chat](https://discord.gg/Ks2Kzd4)  
>  - If your issue has been addressed before (i.e., duplicated issue), please ask in the original issue  
>  - If your issue is a Wi-Fi problem or MQTT problem, please try the steps provided in the [FAQ](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/FAQ) and troubleshooting wiki articles  
>
> Please take a few minutes to complete the requested information below. Our ability to provide assistance is greatly hampered without it. The details requested potentially affect which options to pursue. The small amount of time you spend completing the template will also help the volunteers providing the assistance to you to reduce the time required to help you.

### BUG DESCRIPTION
_A clear and concise description of what the bug is._


### REQUESTED INFORMATION
_Make sure your have performed every step and checked the applicable boxes before submitting your issue. Thank you!_

**FAILURE TO COMPLETE THE REQUESTED INFORMATION WILL RESULT IN YOUR ISSUE BEING CLOSED**

- [ ] Read the [Contributing Guide and Policy](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/blob/development/CONTRIBUTING.md) and [the Code of Conduct](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/blob/development/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
- [ ] Searched the problem in [issues](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/issues)
- [ ] Searched the problem in the [wiki](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Troubleshooting)
- [ ] Searched the problem in the [forum](https://groups.google.com/d/forum/sonoffusers)
- [ ] Searched the problem in the [chat](https://discord.gg/Ks2Kzd4)
- [ ] Device used (e.g., Sonoff Basic): _____
- [ ] Tasmota binary firmware version number used: _____
  - [ ] Pre-compiled
  - [ ] Self-compiled
    - [ ] IDE / Compiler used: _____
- [ ] Flashing tools used: _____
- [ ] Provide the output of command: ``Backlog Template; Module; GPIO``:
  ```
  Configuration output here:
  
  
  ```
- [ ] If using rules, provide the output of this command: ``Backlog Rule1; Rule2; Rule3``:
  ```
  Rules output here:
  
  
  ```
- [ ] Provide the output of this command: ``Status 0``:
  ```
  STATUS 0 output here:
  
  
  ```
- [ ] Provide the output of the Console log output when you experience your issue; if applicable:
  _(Please use_ ``weblog 4`` _for more debug information)_
  ```
  Console output here:
  
  
  ```

### TO REPRODUCE
_Steps to reproduce the behavior:_


### EXPECTED BEHAVIOUR
_A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen._


### SCREENSHOTS
_If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem._


### ADDITIONAL CONTEXT
_Add any other context about the problem here._


**(Please, remember to close the issue when the problem has been addressed)**

Commit message:

No issue support for Tuya Converted devices

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/Bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
---

> **GUIDE**
>
> This BUG issue template is meant to REPORT Tasmota software BUGS ONLY>
>  
> Please DO NOT OPEN AN ISSUE:
>  - If your Tasmota version is not the latest from the development branch, please update your device before submitting your issue. Your problem might already be solved. The latest precompiled binaries of Tasmota can be downloaded from http://thehackbox.org/tasmota/ 
>  - If you have a issue when flashing was done via Tuya Convert  
>  - If your issue is a flashing issue, please address it to the [Tasmota Support Chat](https://discord.gg/Ks2Kzd4)  
>  - If your issue is compilation problem, please address it to the [Tasmota Support Chat](https://discord.gg/Ks2Kzd4)  
>  - If your issue has been addressed before (i.e., duplicated issue), please ask in the original issue  
>  - If your issue is a Wi-Fi problem or MQTT problem, please try the steps provided in the [FAQ](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/FAQ) and troubleshooting wiki articles  
>
> Please take a few minutes to complete the requested information below. Our ability to provide assistance is greatly hampered without it. The details requested potentially affect which options to pursue. The small amount of time you spend completing the template will also help the volunteers providing the assistance to you to reduce the time required to help you.

### BUG DESCRIPTION
_A clear and concise description of what the bug is._


### REQUESTED INFORMATION
_Make sure your have performed every step and checked the applicable boxes before submitting your issue. Thank you!_

**FAILURE TO COMPLETE THE REQUESTED INFORMATION WILL RESULT IN YOUR ISSUE BEING CLOSED**

- [ ] Read the [Contributing Guide and Policy](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/blob/development/CONTRIBUTING.md) and [the Code of Conduct](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/blob/development/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
- [ ] Searched the problem in [issues](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/issues)
- [ ] Searched the problem in the [wiki](https://github.com/arendst/Sonoff-Tasmota/wiki/Troubleshooting)
- [ ] Searched the problem in the [forum](https://groups.google.com/d/forum/sonoffusers)
- [ ] Searched the problem in the [chat](https://discord.gg/Ks2Kzd4)
- [ ] Device used (e.g., Sonoff Basic): _____
- [ ] Tasmota binary firmware version number used: _____
  - [ ] Pre-compiled
  - [ ] Self-compiled
    - [ ] IDE / Compiler used: _____
- [ ] Flashing tools used: _____
- [ ] Provide the output of command: ``Backlog Template; Module; GPIO``:
  ```
  Configuration output here:
  
  
  ```
- [ ] If using rules, provide the output of this command: ``Backlog Rule1; Rule2; Rule3``:
  ```
  Rules output here:
  
  
  ```
- [ ] Provide the output of this command: ``Status 0``:
  ```
  STATUS 0 output here:
  
  
  ```
- [ ] Provide the output of the Console log output when you experience your issue; if applicable:
  _(Please use_ ``weblog 4`` _for more debug information)_
  ```
  Console output here:
  
  
  ```

### TO REPRODUCE
_Steps to reproduce the behavior:_


### EXPECTED BEHAVIOUR
_A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen._


### SCREENSHOTS
_If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem._


### ADDITIONAL CONTEXT
_Add any other context about the problem here._


**(Please, remember to close the issue when the problem has been addressed)**
